source: https://steamcommunity.com/sharedfiles/filedetails/?id=271353889
Rules Of The Game You’re Bluffing!


You’re Bluffing is a cardgame for 3 – 5 players, from age of 10 - 99.

Components
• 40 animal-cards 10 x 4 animalcards (Cat, Chicken, Cow, Dog, Donkey, Goat, Goose, Horse, Lamb and
Pig)
• 55 money cards (10 x 0; 20 x 10; 10 x 50; 5 x 100, 200, 500)



The Goal

Aquire the animal cards with the highest value. Do this by bidding on animals during auctions or try
to bluff your opponents during a cow trading. The player with the highest score at the end wins the
game.



Setup

Shuffle the animalcards and place them in the tray, backside up. Sort the moneycards by value. Each
player receives two 0-cards (to bluff), four 10-cards and one 50-card. Put the othe moneycards into
the cardtray. They are used later. Someone beginns.



The Game

Each player takes his turn in clockwise order around the table. During his turn each player has two
options:

1. Auction off the animal card on top of the stack

or

2. do a cow trade with another player. This is only possible if two players have animals of the same
kind, so there will be no cow trades in the beginning.



The Auction

The player turns over the topmost card. All the players bid simultaneously on this card. Each next bid
must be higher than the preceeding one. The player auctioning the card off calls out for example - 30
going first - 30 going second - gone for 30! The auctioning player may buy the animal for the
highest bid. In this case he pays the money to the high bidder. If he doesn't want to do so, the high
bidder pays the bid to the auctioning player. During the game, there is no chance to exchange money
and someone who buys a card will not receive any change. If you can't exactly pay the money you
bid, you have to spend a higher moneycard. If someone bid more money than he has, he has to reveal
all his moneycards and the auction is repeated without him. If nobody wants to bid on an animal, the
player auctioning off the card gets it for free. Animal cards owned by a player (not in the pile to
beauctioned off) are placed open so each player can see what his opponents own.



Cow Trade

When two player own the same kind of animal, a player may make a horsetrade with the owner of
the other card. If more than one player have the same animal, he may decide, with which one to
trade. Of course a player may still auction of a card, instead of doing a cow trade! The other player
may not refuse to cow trade with the challenging player.

For the cow trade, the challenging player simply places any number of money cards face down on the
table. He may of course include 0-cards to bluff! The opposing player now has two choices:

a) accept the hidden offer, take the money and hand over the animal, the trade was about.
b) place a bid hinself by laying out money cards hidden. In this case both players exchange the cards
and check the bid of the opponent.The player with the higher bid gets the opponents animal. Both
players keep the money received from the opponent. If both bids were equal, the two players bid
again in the same order. If they are equal again, the challenging player gets the challenged players
animal for free.

If one player has only one of the animals they want to trade in a cowtrade, the trade is for one
animal, even if the other player has two or three animals. If the player with the two or three
animals looses the trade, he only has to hand over one of his animals. However, if both players have
two animals of the kind being traded, the trade is for both of them, so whoever looses, has to hand
over both of his animals. Of course, a player who has all four animals of a kind can't be challenged
for that animal anymore, because noone else has one of that kind to challenge him.



The Donkey

Whenever the donkey is turned over for auction, the game is immediately interupted. The player whose
turn it is, deals everybody additional money. One 50 money card at the first donkey, a 100 at the 2nd
donkey, a 200 at the 3rd, and a 500 at the 4th donkey. When everybody got the new money, the
donkey is auctioned off normally.



No more animals to auction off!

When there are no more animals to auction off, people have to make cow trades if they can.



End of the Game

When there are no more cowtrades to be made and all animals are auctioned off, the game is over.
The number on the cards shows the value of all the four cards together. Each player multiplies the
sum of his animals value, with the number of different kinds he collected. Thats his overall score. The
highest score wins the game. Note, that money isn't worth anything at the end.

Example for the score:
You have collected: Pigs (650), Dogs (160) and Roosters (10). Sum up the animals values: 650 + 160 +
10 = 820 points. You collected three kinds of animals, so the score is multiplied with three: 820 x 3 =
2460 points which is the overall score!
